The Dorian Principle, a biblical response to the commercialization of Christianity by
Conley Owens, Appendix C, Copyright and Natural Law.
In Chapter 13, I argued that the Dorian Principle should lead ministers to forego legal enforcement
of copyright protections in the context of ministry.
However, there is a stronger case to be made that all Christians should waive such protections
in all contexts.
While theologians differ on the matter, I would argue that a biblical view of natural
law delegitimizes the entire notion of intellectual property.
First, it should be recognized that copyright laws and artificial imposition on the economy
of creative works, and the words of Christopher May and Susan K. Celle, intellectual property
constructs a scarce resource from knowledge or information that is not formally scarce.
Ideas are inherently reproducible, and in an additional age, the cost of reproducing
most works is negligible.
However, copyright protection maintains an economy around the selling and buying of
licenses to obtain copies of creative works and the rights to use them.
Beyond this initial observation, the relatively recent advent of copyright regulations demonstrates
their nature as purely human inventions.
If they were instead codifications of a divine principle, one would expect such statutes
to appear earlier in human history.
Additionally, while most relevant laws protect material property to perpetuity, the copyright
protection offered by governments is, in all but a few circumstances, temporary.
This constitutes an implicit concession that intellectual property is not property in
the truest sense.
The fact that some of these protections last for 20 years and some longer than a lifetime
testified to the arbitrary nature of intellectual property law.
Of course, not all would agree.
Some have argued that copyright protection stems from natural rights, those rights given
by God.
In fact, the founding fathers of the United States incorporated provision for intellectual
property law and the Constitution on the basis of a lock-yam understanding of natural
rights.
If one has a right to liberty and property, the body being irrevocably the property of
the individual, then he has a right to the products of his body, the fruit of his labors.
Moreover, one who goes about the improvement of nature ought to be able to reap the rewards
of that improvement.
Following this line of reasoning, one may conclude that no categorical difference exists between
intellectual property and material property.
One who fashions a creative work ought to have ownership over it as his own property.
While these lock-yam premises are unobjectionable, the conclusion must be questioned.
To protect the product of the mind is not the right to hold a secret sufficient.
One who is not compelled to divulge information or share property may keep his creative works
to himself.
However, once disseminated, he has freely given this information to the public.
With material property, a violation of the eighth commandment, they shall not steal, results
in direct loss for another individual.
With intellectual property, undesired copying and use of a published work may only be counted
as a loss when estimating the potential of an idea to garner profit.
In the words of Thomas Jefferson, "If nature has made any one thing less susceptible
than all others of exclusive property, it is the action of the thinking power called
an idea, which an individual may exclusively possess as long as he keeps it to himself."
But the moment it is divulged, it forces itself into the possession of everyone, and the
receiver cannot dispossess himself of it.
Its peculiar character, too, is that no one possesses the less because every other possesses
the whole of it.
He who receives an idea from me receives instruction himself without lessening mind, as he who
lights his taper at mind, receives light without darkening me.
That idea should freely spread from one to another over the globe, for the moral and
mutual instruction of man and improvement of his condition seems to have been peculiarly
and benevolently designed by nature when she made them like fire, expandable over all
space, without lessening their density in any point, and like the air in which we breathe,
move, and have our physical being, incapable of confinement or exclusive appropriation.
In my estimation, the language employed in copyright legislation betrays the underlying
utilitarian motives.
The US Constitution gives Congress the power to promote the progress of science and useful
arts by securing for limited times to authors and investors the exclusive right to their respected
writings and discoveries.
The statute of an established copyright law for preventing the detriment of authors and
proprietors for the future and for the encouragement of learned men to compose and write useful
books.
Rather than flowing from natural rights endowed by our creator, copyright law arises from
a pragmatic desire to model the economy of creative works after the economy of physical
goods.
If it can be granted that the government has a sweeping authority to wield its power to
improve the lives of its subjects, modern copyright may have some place in society.
If instead the God-ordained authority of the civil magistrate is limited to the enforcement
of retributive justice, the government may only prosecute those who have violated the natural
rights of another.
In this view, Lex Talley-Hannes, Exist 2124, combined with the Deuteronomic principle
that justice shall not be perverted by other paragogatives due to the Deuteronomy 1617-20,
restricts governing authorities from erecting legislation extraneous to the violation of
one's property rights.
If copyright is not a natural right, then its protection is not a legitimate function of
government.
If copyright is not a natural right, then it is unethical for any man or ministry to use
the power of government in a court of law to enforce copyright.
In fact, rather than a protection of the copyright holders' rights, such an action would be a violation
of the consumer's rights, as they ought to be able to do as they please with the information
in their possession.
End of appendix C.